tampering about here requires some very
delicate footwork indeed mother's tale
clearly makes about a handhold for the
youngster but even at this age
a young Shafak is able to negotiate the
spines collecting Dede really sand
flowers and there the ship arks main
food looks even more hazardous and
travelling around through its branches
but when she Fox decide to move they can
travel very fast indeed they use the
same basic method as Bush babies but do
so with such speed and confidence that
they seem almost to bounce from trunk to
trunk only in slow motion can you see
just how accurately they land and how
instantaneously they're able to take off
again
but given the chance they assess their
jumps with care takeoff
has to start sideways on to the line of
flight so they have to rotate their
bodies in midair
then those hind legs having kicked off
have to be swung forward to act as shock
absorbers as they make contact
they're back feet long and narrow with
an enormous big toe so that they can
lock onto a trunk as soon as they hit it
then within seconds they're off again
and a female can even do all this while
she's carrying a baby
down on the ground however the method
doesn't work quite so well extremely
long legs and very short arms make it
impossible to run on all fours so once
again it has to be jumping but with no
vertical trunk to push away from the
leaps a rather shorter back in the trees
they can travel at speed again and they
need to for they have a savage enemy the
fossa its speed through the branches
rivals that of the shavax
but its technique is entirely different
for it's not a primate with jumping
ancestors but a kind of giant Mongoose
and it's still a four-footed runner
nonetheless they're a close match for
one another
but when it comes to the long jump the
Shafaat wins a four-footed runner can't
match that